---
layout: post
title: "A smattering of advice"
---


Recently, I finished my master's degree at UW CSE. In the last year, I've been
honored that people have reached out to me for advice on how to
get into research/teaching/grad school/internships/whatever.

Because of this, I've been thinking
about what I wish I knew when I was in their shoes, and I wanted to write some
of it down, in case it's helpful to anyone else.

So, here's some advice from pre-PhD me, which mostly echoes advice I've gotten from
people much smarter than me.

### Miscellaneous advice

- Read [this](https://ztatlock.net/anxiety-carts-horses.html).
- Don't go on r/udub. It is where miserable people meet to be miserable together.
- Say "yes" to things. It's better to regret doing something than to regret not doing it; if you don't like it,
  you learn something for next time.
- Once you've said "yes" to enough things, start saying "no".
- Make sure that when you kiss ass, it's a choice and not your default behavior.
- When you overcome an obstacle, make it easier for the next person to do so.
- Boys are not worth it.

### How do I write a good statement of purpose/application for X position?

As the TA coordinator, I read hundreds of applications for our TA program.

A common mistake I saw is when
people don't address the prompt. Have a concrete
goal, and talk about how the things you've done
prepare you to achieve that goal!

Undergrads in particular like to tell stories
in their applications, e.g. about the time
they were enthralled by Dijkstra's algorithm.

[Adrian Sampson](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~asampson/blog/gradstatement.html)
has a very good post about SOPs. In it, he touches on
the overall sentiment I have about these stories:

> Resist the temptation to open with a cute anecdote. To the extent they convey anything,
> little personal stories like this mainly serve to illustrate your enthusiasm—
> but everyone applying to CS PhD programs is enthusiastic about CS (I hope).
> Spend the space instead showing off your experience, interests, and expertise,
> which are what make you unique.

### What's the best way to get involved with X?

Know people. Find people who are doing what you want to do, and
ask them how they got there. And then, know more people.

I never believed in networking, but it's truly so critical
to getting opportunities. The best part is, once your foot's in the door,
making the next connection and getting the next opportunity is so much easier.

What does networking look like? A lot of times, it's as simple
as finding time to chat and asking questions.

Here's what [Justine Sherry](https://justinesherry.com/) had to say about this in a
[document of advice to prospective grad students at UW](https://web.archive.org/web/20200724132913/https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~justine/advice.pdf):

> It turns out that people go into professorships in some part because they like giving advice to
> students, and furthermore, when you tell them you want to go to grad school, you are telling them
> implicitly that you aspire to be like them. So they will talk a lot, and have tons of things to
> say. All you really need are two or three questions, and you will get like an hour’s worth of advice,
> almost all of which will be completely useful and interesting, I swear.

### How do I get into research?

Mostly the same story as above.

If you're at UW and you want to get into PLSE, come to lunch
and come to reading group. That's a great way of getting
to know people.

If you're looking for more fine-grained advice on getting into research,
see some advice very talented, very smart friend Vishal
Canumalla
wrote [here](https://vcanumalla.github.io/fun).

### What GPA do I need for X job/grad school/whatever?

Probably > 3.0, maybe 3.5? I find in general that people really
overestimate the importance of GPA. The connections you make
and the work you do speak so much more than how well
you did in a class!

Here's what my 311 instructor, [Robbie Weber](https://weberrobbie.com/), said
one day [in class](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse311/20au/lecture/07-unalike-nested.pdf),
and I think it's worth repeating:

> Grades were critical in your lives up until now. If you were in high school, they're
> critical for getting into college. If you were at UW applying to CSE, they were key
> to that application. Regardless of where you're going next, what you learn [...]
> matters FAR more than [your grades]. If you're planning on industry -- interviews
> matter more than grades. If you're planning on grad school -- letters matter most,
> those are based on doing work outside of class building off what you learned.

I think it goes without saying that you shouldn't _bomb_ your classes,
but don't sweat the small stuff --I think the difference between a 3.5 and a 3.7
is pretty negligible to most sane people.

### I'm bombing a class. How do I stop this from happening again?

Most of the time, bombing occurs in classes with exams; I haven't seen
it happen as often in classes with projects. So, for exams:

[Andrew Loveless](https://andrewloveless.com/) has a great
[guide to success in UW's intro calc series](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~aloveles/Math126Materials/Recipe%20for%20Success.pdf).
In it, he says:

- At the end of each week, quickly look through 3-4 old exams.
- At least one full week before the exam, print off 2-3 old midterms and work through them in detail.
- Sometime in the week before the exam, spend 15 minutes flipping through ALL the old midterms.
- Two days before the midterm, work through 2-3 old exams in detail again.
- Get a good night’s sleep the night before the exam and take the test showing everything you know.

### Should I apply for X?

Yes. Never self-select.

I think there are two fundamentally different approaches
to decision making in general, and Zach has a great way
of describing them. If you envision decision making like
trying to hit a target, there are two ways to go about it:

1. **The sniper approach**: Out of several targets,
   carefully consider which one you want to hit.
   Then, aim carefully and take your shot.

2. **Another approach**: Step 1: Shoot the gun.
   Step 2: Find where the bullet landed.
   Step 3: Draw a target around the bullet.

If you're ever unsure, just shoot the gun.

### Should I choose X as my advisor for my PhD?

I know earlier I said to not be cynical, but picking a PhD
advisor is a great time for cynicism. You're going to be
working with this person for the next 5-6 years, and it's
better to know earlier if that person is an asshole.

Talk to their students. It's okay to literally ask them
what they hate about their advisor (maybe not as bluntly).
Trust your gut. Don't go to fishy
places, and don't work with fishy people.

See my friend James Yoo's
[blog post](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~jmsy/blog/visit-days.html)
for better advice on navigating visit days.

### Should I play Dota?

No.
